baking bread always makes me so happy
and this cheeky little loaf has
all the flavors of pizza and it's so
much fun to tear and share
my pepperoni pull-apart is loaded with
cheese tomato
and fresh basil all the gorgeous
fluffiness of bread with a punchy flavor
of pizza
a match made in baking heaven
i love baking and this is one of my
simple recipes that takes bread to a
whole other level to start with i'm
going to add
400 grams of self-raising flour
traditionally you'd bake bread
with strong bread flour but don't let
anyone tell you that you can't use the
flour you've got at home
because you can use it now i'm going to
add
seven grams of fast action yeast and i'm
going to drop that on one side
of the flour so then i'm gonna add a
teaspoon
of salt to the other side of the bowl
salt doesn't like yeast if i add the
salt on top of the yeast it will just
start killing it straight away
remember that yeast is alive it's like
child number one and child number three
don't really get along always so just
give them a bath
add a tablespoon of caster sugar and
some dried oregano
now you know me i don't like washing so
i am just going to use
my dough hook for my mixer i got to use
it anyway
you could also use this dough as a
really good pizza base
and then just create a little
well in the center i've got 300 mls of
lukewarm water not hot not cold just
warm means it just starts to activate
that yeast
cold and it has to work too hard too hot
and you're gonna kill it
bring the ingredients together and then
you can either knead by hand
or let the mixer do the work
six minutes and it's done
okay that's ready
look at that that dough is stretchy
and soft right now it's gotta prove
there's something very addictive about
mucking around
with dough and making bread it feels
like magic
and we need to let the yeast weave its
spell
cover it in a tea towel find a really
sunny warm spot in the house
and then leave that to prove until it's
doubled in size
[Music]
baking bread does take time but for me
that's part of the joy
it's moments like this when i can switch
off relinquish control
and just wait for the dough to do its
thing
look at that you can definitely see when
it's doubled in size
and if you've got any bread baking fears
right now you should be really happy
because it's happening
let's knock the air out of this dough
any pockets of air could ruin the shape
go it's gone go
go go it's not aggression guys it's just
bread baking
anywhere where you get to use your hands
and
watch things change that's what i love
about bread baking
so i've got my rolling pin lots of flour
because it is still quite a sticky dough
so we want a rectangle shape and i'm not
even going to measure it
i'm just using a standard size cheese
slice i'm going to use eight of these
four across two down anything that
tastes like pizza is a winner for me
so i am gonna use a tomatoey
hot sauce just because it's easy
then cheese so buy eight slices of
cheese
perfect measuring i would say and then
the all-important spicy pepperoni
two per slice this is fun
you're gonna love it
and top it off with some gorgeous fresh
basil
here comes the clever bit where this
regular loaf becomes a pull apart
chop it up into squares so this is the
best bit
okay let me roll up them sleeves grab
the square and you know don't worry if
it feels like it's coming apart
you made this dough it's your dough own
it and then
fold it in half and push it in when it's
baked it'll look like a single loaf
but you'll have the sheer pleasure of
being able to rip it apart with ease
if you've never baked bread before do
this make something fun make something
memorable
put your loaf somewhere warm and prove
it for 15 minutes before it goes in the
oven
[Music]
i love baking bread on a lazy day when
i'm not pushed for time
oh yes
look at that
[Music]
look at all of those layers that we
folded and now just to finish it off
i'm going to give it just a quick brush
with some good olive oil stick it in the
middle of the table
lovely and hot straight out of the oven
and you get your hands
in and you pull it apart my pepperoni
pull apart has all the tastiness of
pizza
but with the added bonus of being able
to tear and share it with your favorite
people
you tear it and you don't share it
sometimes